
1.Differences between Horizontal & Vertical Scaling :
  Horizontal: 
         	Load Balancing Required
         	Resilient
         	Network Calls (RPC) (to different services)
         	Data Inconsistency
         	Scales Well as new users are added
  Vertical:
  		   Load Balancing Not Required
  		   Single Point of Failure
  		   Inter process communication no RPC required
  		   Consistent
  		   Hardware Limit
  		   
 2.Distributed System:
 		   Micro Service architecture
 		   Distributed systems (Partitions)
 		   Load Balancer
 		   Decoupling
 		   Logging and Analytics
 		   Extensible
 
 3.Load balancing : is how the load is being distributed among different servers:One of the ways for distributing the load 
   could be using the hasing techniques in which , depending on a particular field , say ID , and a particular hash function 
   and the no of servers ,server is decided where the request would land. (eg. hashFunction(ID) % no Of servers)
   
   This was an example of inconsistent hashing , bcs any addition of a new server , would make the request go to some other
   server ,because the value of generated hash would be different , this would result in dumping of all the caches 
   which were already stored on a particular server since for the same ID we would have the same hash value and hence the
   same server.
   
   To the Rescuse of above issue is consistent Hashing : 
   
4. Monolith : 
   1. Suitable for small team
   2. Less Complex
   3. Integration testing is easier
   4. Faster since no network calls are made
   DisAdvantage:
   1. New developer needs more context to go through everything and understand everything
   2. Deployment is complex as whole code is deployed again
   3. Too much responsibility on each server

5. Microservices :
   1.Easier to scale (as anything which is used more can be scaled easily)
   2.Easier for new team members
   3.Parallel development is easy because of loose coupling
   Disadvantages:
   1.Tough to design

6. Sharding: (Other things : Horizontal Sharding , Vertical Sharding, Database partitioning )
   Problems:
   1. Joins across shards could be very expensive because the data will be pulled out from two db and then will travel over network
      for a join
   2. In sharded database there should always be master slave model. so that if master fails , slaves could take over
      there could be multiple slaves which will be copying the master. Whenever there is a write request , its always 
      on the master(the master is the most updated copy). While the slaves continuously poll the master and read from it.
      If there is a read request it can distributed across slaves , while if there is write request, it always 
      goes to the master.In case the master fails, the slaves choose one master among themselves.
      (So, basically it provides single point of failure tolerance)
      
7. HTTP : client server protocol
   XMPP : Peer to peer protocol, this is can used to send the messages from the server to the clients , like we receive 
   		notifications from the tinder when we get a match
8.Web socket: these connections remain persistent, if you dont want to use this you can use http with long polling

9.Benefits of NoSql: Joins are expensive in relational databases. Schema is flexible in NoSql as all we care about is 
  json. Inbuilt horizontal partitioning in nosql DBs.
  DisAdvantages:
  1. Not good for loads of updates as consistency is problem since ACID is not guaranteed.
  2. Read is comparatively slower to RDBMS bcs its has to read the whole json to find and return particular sets
  3. Joins are hard bcs it will read all the json like manually and then will try to join the values
 So , Nosql is better for write optimized databases
 
 10. MultiLevel sharding. Indexing in relational database internally uses B+ tree which gives O(log(n)) insertion and search operation
 11. Slave can pull data from master either synchronously or aync
 
 12. Relational Database Design :
 
 13. Apache Kafka is: //Producer api push data to kafka using "spring boot kafka templates" using the topics. Consumer Api consume data from kafka topics
	    Scalable
	    Fault tolerant
	    A great publish-subscribe messaging system (using kafka topics)
	    Capable of higher throughput compared with most messaging systems
	    Highly durable
	    Highly reliable
	    High performant
 
14. @Value("${spring.redis.host}")
    private String REDIS_HOSTNAME;
   
    @Value("${spring.redis.port}")
    private int REDIS_PORT;                  // Setting up hostname and port for redis. Redis template in spring boot provides many methods
   

15.Caching: (Redis and Memcache can be used)
    Cache Invalidation : (i.e. when we want to update any value , how caching works)
   . Write through cache : Data is written in cache and database at the same time
   . Write -around cache : Data is written in Db only . Cache is marked as invalid .It is written later in cache
   . Write- back cache : Data is written in cache only. It is written in Db later
   Read heavy system : can use caching
   Cache Eviction : LRU is the most used technique, next is LFU
   
16. Consistent Hashing: read something about it

17. Storage: 
    Object storage : example amazon s3 for storing images
    RAID : Redundant array of independent disks, is a way of storing data on multiple hard disks or sdd to protect in case of failures.RAID 5 is most used
   
18. 3 Guarantees of distributed systems which are required: Consistency, Availability, Partition tolerant   

19. CAP theorem (Its quite a common question related to compromises around Relational and NoSql Databases) : Cap stands for -->consistency, availability and
    partition tolerant. As per this theorem --> When network partition occurs , system cannot be both consistent and highly available    
    Conflict Resolution after network is back to normal on CAP theorem :
    --> Majority Based
    --> Time stamp based
   
20. ACID : Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation , Durability : A transaction is a single logical unit of work consisting of one or more instructions which accesses
    and possibly modifies the contents of a database.To maintain the integrity of the database each transaction should be ACID compliant.

    Atomicity : Either all the instructions will succeed or all will fail .
    Consisteny: DB should be in consistent state before and after the transaction , there should not be any corruption of data
    Isolation : If multiple transactions are running concurrently , then they should not be affected by each other
    Durability : Changes once committed should persist, even after hardware or software failure
    All financila transactions should follow ACID.
    
21. Nosql db --> are more scable and provides higher performance with flexible datamodel unlike fixed tables in relational databases.
    4 main types : key-value (redis, voldemort), Column oriented(Cassandra), Document based (MongoDb), Graph Based (Neo4j)

22. Architectural patterns : Monolithic, SOA, Microservice
    Difference between SOA and Microservice : Read ??

23. Communication Protocols :
    --> HTTP
    --> Long Polling
    --> Web Sockets
    
24. Back of the Envelope Calculations :Estimate how many servers we need to serve read requests considering each server is capable of handling 
    7 requests per second. We have to serve a total traffic of 46 Million per day.
    Answer: 
    7 requests per second
    7*60 = 420 requests per minute
    420*60 requests per hour = 400 * 60 = 24000 per hour = 24K per hour
    24K * 24 requests per day ≈ 30K*20 = 600K requests per day per server
    We want to handle 46 Million requests per day which means 46M/600K = approx 45M/500K = 45M/0.5M = 45*2 = 90 servers.
    
25. Note : Highly Available systems : Follow the no single point of failure principle
    Note : Systems with high performance : Follow the no bottleneck principle

26. Cache : For deciding the cache : Remember the 80 to 20 rule. That is every day 20% of the data is used for 80% of the time

27. Purging: Purging is the process of freeing up space in the database or of deleting obsolete data that is not required by the system
    A server which runs the purging job can be used to purge the Database

28.











   
   
   